---
layout: post
title: Week 3 - Bloomberg & Exceptions
---

The third week in Software Engineering included a class info session with Bloomberg and a lecture covering Exceptions. Overall, the info session with a representative from Bloomberg was extremely detailed and outlined many of the products that Bloomberg builds as well as its function and role in the financial industry. I did not originally expect Bloomberg to be such a large tech company as I had only known of them from their television channel. To see the wide variety of technological innovations they have created in the last few decades was extremely interesting. The presenter was very thorough in detailing what working at Bloomberg was like.

### Exceptions

Overall the files covered in class related to exceptions were very clear. Not only do they showcase the basics of exceptions and exception handling for specific types of exceptions. It also showcased the class structure of exceptions relative to one another, and presented how different types of exceptions can be thrown and caught. Furthermore, the exceptions were shown in both languages Javascript and Python, giving an overarching view of how exceptions are a necessary tool when it comes to programming.

### Tip of the Week

For anyone looking for jobs and internships, I would highly suggest checking out Glassdoor. There's a lot of reviews, interview questions, and salary postings that can help when deciding whether or not you want to work at a company. The reviews will help give a first hand perspective on what the work environment and what life is like at that specific company. The interview questions can help prepare you to be able to tackle the difficult interview processes, and of course, the salaries can help you estimate how much companies pay relative to one another. Overall, glassdoor helps in understanding the interview and application process for various companies you are interested in and can definitely help in making a decision for a potential internship or full time position.