---
layout: post
title: Week 4 - Netflix, Recursion, Maps
---

Overall, this week I was not in class due to onsite interviews, but I can definitely provide insight on the lectures from the lecture programs. On the first day, we covered details of the netflix project, which involved developing an intelligent prediction algorithm to identify what individual's ratings will be on specific shows based upon their past ratings. Additionally, Dr. Downing detailed the specifics of the origin of the project and went through some basic approaches to the project itself.

### Lectures

Additionally, factorial algorithms were posted using recursive algorithms, which go through some basic python methods of approaching the problem. Dr. Downing also went into detail of how maps work and how they can be implemented in Python as well. Lastly, he went into detail concerning how RMSE can be calculated and methods of testing it as well.

### Tip of the Week

Participate in extra-curricular coding activities such as hackathons. The amount of new technologies that you can learn in one weekend is amazing. Not only can you get a better sense of how to use APIs and make applications for them, you can also learn new web technologies to best use those APIs for your application. Additionally, you can form teams with people with much more experience that can teach you a thing or two concerning new technologies, better development practices, and being a better software engineer in general. Of course, there's always the possibility of winning great prizes by competing for grand prizes or for specific sponsor prizes, which can be a great way to make programming more competitive and fun. Moreover, you can meet new people, make new friends, get free food and free "swag," and build that awesome application you've been wanting to build.