---
layout: post
title: Week 14 - The Finale
---

Class Overview

Software Engineering is a course that provides a good basic foundation for understanding real world programming industry standards as well as basic web application development. The course covers a large portion of industry standards that tech companies have been implementing for a while now such as writing extensive unit tests, using issues or tickets to handle specific tasks, team development tools, integration testing, and many more. Many of these concepts are necessary in order to build robust code and reduce the number of bugs and failures when developing massive applications. Additionally, the class involved a large final project split into three separate parts which involved building a web application using Flask, Python, SQL, and a front-end framework of either React.js or Angular.js. This project helps provide a strong basis for understanding all aspects of building a complex web application including the development of a backend with significant amount of data, using a web framework to serve pages and transfer information, and utilizing a front-end framework to present data and information in a clear and clean manner. In general, building this type of application definitely provides basic experience in all aspects of building applications and helps students to understand how real-world applications are built from the ground up. In my opinion, this course is a great course for preparing students for internships and providing students with relevant projects to give them an edge in recruiting. Concerning the final project, it is also important to note that it truly involves learning how to build applications on your own without a large amount of direct instruction. The result of this is that the degree of benefit in terms of skills and learning that results from building the final project is entirely dependent upon the amount of effort students put into it. In general, I believe this course to be a good introductory course that helps teach essential skills that most Computer Science students should have.