---
layout: post
title: Week 1 - Intro to Python and Javascript 8/30/15
---

The first week in Software Engineering was definitely a unique experience. From reading the syllabus and listening to the first day introduction, I can tell that this class will be extremely useful to my future career as a software engineer. Learning Django, React/Angular, and several other software engineering tools will be extremely helpful in my next job, in building my own side projects, and learning more about web development and computer science.

Lectures 

Additionally, the I enjoyed the style of the class and how it has been taught so far. The style of asking students questions during class directly took me by surprise as I was the first one to answer questions. The questions were not too difficult that they would be too hard to answer, but at the same time they definitely ensured that I would be pressured to pay attention.

The lectures were nicely formatted and extremely organized. Overall, lessons were extremely easy to follow with an extensive amount of examples in both Python and Javascript to help everyone get situated with the languages themselves and the functionality and syntax of each language. Professor Downing was very thorough in explaining the nuances of each language and also explaining important differences between the two languages. At the end of the lecture, I felt as if I understood all of the material very well due to how well the explanations were.

Tip of the Week

For anyone looking for Software Engineering jobs, I would highly suggest taking Competitive Programming CS109. It is extremely useful in understanding/implementing algorithmic problems, especially the ones that top companies may give you during interviews.