---
layout: post
title: Week 2 - Collatz 9/6/15
---

The second week in Software Engineering mainly focused on mostly the first project, Collatz. Overall, the lectures during the class helped put into perspective software engineering in industry. Althought the implementation of the collatz algorithm with a cache is not too difficult to implement, the surrounding testing and procedures take much longer. At a real job, testing of programs and code is of much greater importance and unit tests, integration testing, and condition checking are vital especially for companies with millions of users. Maintaining this user base, ensuring the product functions properly, and optimizing code is of utmost importance even if it saves the end user fractions of a second in time. Unit test automation was focused on during the lectures, and it makes sense to have an extensive automated testing suite especially when hundreds or thousands of tests are being run on large bodies of code. Additionally, the lectures covered code coverage tools, which showcased how much of the code was actually ran through by the program during unit testing. Although a testing suite might have a large amount of tests, the tests themselves may not cover important parts of the code, which could potentiall break. These tools seems extremely useful in determining the quality and breakability of code.

### Tip of the Week

Python is great for fast development, and it is extremely easy to use and code with, but make sure to learn another language well that is not as high level. It's a great language because it's very close to pseudo code, but it is really slow relative to other lower level languages. Python does not scale as well, so many large companies don't use Python and instead use C++ or Java. Learning one of these will not only give you more experience with coding at scale but also teach you more about low level concepts of coding.