---
layout: post
title: Week 12 - Design Patterns, Atlassian, & IDB2
---

This week we went over more complex topics with Java and object-oriented programming.

### Lectures

This week we covered several design patterns including the singleton pattern, creational pattern, factory method pattern, and abstract factory pattern. These design patterns are extremely useful when designing good and robust code that can be easily modifiable for future use.

### IDB3

We completed our AnimeDB website and implemented Search, an interesting use of the 4PlayDB API, and improved the quality of code and the website in general. For Search, we implemented several ways of calling our SQL database to parse and find relevant search results. Additionally, for our use of the 4PlayDB API, we implemented a random game generator, which allows the user to choose a random game that we will provide general information for. Lastly, we made an extreme amount of improvements to the front end application concerning the home page and the overall design of the page as well.

### Tip of the Week

If you want to build small apps extremely quickly, and you would like to deploy them extremely easily, use Heroku. They have a huge amount of support for a wide variety of frameworks. Heroku has been one of the easiest ways to deploy applications that I have ever dealth with. Especially compared to Rackspace, Heroku seems to have much more reliable servers that can be scaled at a much higher degree. Although you cannot configure your servers as much as Rackspace can, most of the time your applications will not be complex enough that the additional configuration will be necessary. Heroku makes it extremely easy especially if your code is already on GitHub. The setup is only a few commands and you're pushing your git repo straight to the heroku servers. Heroku allows you to have 5 free applications and 100 free applications (given you provide a credit card in case your traffic is significant). There is a slight downside for the free applications in that they must be asleep for at least 6 hours a day, but the pricing rate is not extremely high either, and your applications aren't limited to the free year trial that Rackspace has.