---
layout: post
title: Week 8 - IDB1
---

This week covered some of the basics of the third project that we will be working on in groups. We will be developing an API web application that will serve information to users. Our group is called the "Full Stack Alchemists" and will be focusing on creating an Anime API which will contain a wide variety of different anime to search and find information about. Overall, we have narrowed down the focus on how we will create the API from scratch and have begun some initial steps in the implementation process. 

### Lectures

On Monday, Professor Downing covered the basics of the project itself in some detail concerning what is to be expected. Furthermore, on Wednesday, a guest speaker from Rackspace came and discussed how to deploy and use Rackspace to host a an application that can be used. The speaker went into detail about how to deploy a basic flask application as well as installing basic dependencies for getting the application running. He also went through a basic step by step process of creating an account with Rackspace and setting up an account with the correct settings. This should make the process of getting started for this project significantly easier seeing as we have a good tool for deploying our server and handling the server's traffic.

### Tip of the Week

Although students tend to always want to learn as much as possible to get as much experience and knowledge of either Engineering or Computer Science, it is also important to keep in mind your limits. At a certain point, too many classes and too large of a workload can significantly decrease the amount of learning that actually occurs in each class and across the board. Overly stressing without breaks can make learning more difficult, so it is always good to have a good balance between course work and other life activities. Taking a lighter courseload to allow more free time to relax is important, and in the worst case scenario, if you have too much free time, you now have time to work on outside projects. Overall, making sure that you have control over your coursework and well-being as a student is extremely important as it can directly affect your grades, health, and overall well-being.