---
layout: post
title: Week 7 - Functions, Decorators, and Test 1
---

This week's lectures covered more difficult concepts involving functions and decorators. Many of these new functions seem to make programming with Python much easier when it comes to having functions that can serve multiple purposes and have several features.

### Lectures

We learned much about how parameters and unpacking in functions can be used to take in multiple parameters and how they can be manipulated once passed in. Additionally, we learned how decorators can in a sense modify functions and provide checking and functionality to functions themselves. Having functions within functions was definitely a unique concept that I had never even thought of before. It took me a while to understand the concept, but once I understood it, I understood the value of using decorators almost immediately.

### Test 1

Test 1 was quite interesting and a very different from what I expected. At first, I thought it would be more diverse sets of questions, but I found them to be very similar. At the same time, they definitely tested that we understood the concepts discussed in class to an in-depth degree. The hints were very good and did not give away the question, but if you had studied appropriately for the tests, they directed you to the answer almost immediately. What I found interesting though was the wide variety of possible answers that could be correct solutions for the problems due to the wide variety of implementations available through Python. I found the questions to be fair but also challenging, which usually is a good sign. Nothing seemed out of the scope of the concepts covered in class although I could definitely see how certain questions were more difficult than others. The tests make it EXTREMELY clear what the answer should be and how it should be presented and gives a sort of "you know it or you don't" feeling.

### Tip of the Week

Get a linux machine or a Mac! From attempting to do web development on a Windows machine for longest time, I would personally highly suggest not attempting to program without some sort of linux environment. After stubbornly attempting to program on Windows for the longest time, I've come to realize that there's several problems that can occur. Versions of programming languages may not work, dependencies may not install easily, certain tools are simply not available on Windows, and overall it is quite the nightmare. Granted, I have seen some few developers successfully execute programming on Windows machines, but usually they have simply developed basic HTML/Javascript. When it comes to using complex web frameworks, building on Windows can lead to several huge headaches. Additionally, command line options are extremely limited as the Windows terminal is not that easy to use and does not have as much support. Also, Cygwin is an option, but installing dependencies on Cygwin is equally as annoying. Installing dependencies and tools on a Linux machine may take a few seconds while figuring out the issue for why the same program is not installing properly on Windows can take hours. Furthermore, if you still need Windows for gaming or other very specific purposes, I would highly suggest dual booting. It's easy to do and provides both operating systems to be used whenever necessary. Until Window's Linux environment has more support and is easier to use, I would highly suggest having some form of Linux to work on.