---
layout: post
title: Week 6 - RangeIterator, AllOf, Range
---

Overall, this week covered even more Python concepts concerning the implementation of classes and functions for iterables and iterators, using list comprehensions for various purposes, and using lambdas to return functions. 

### Lectures

We implemented several classes and functions including a range iterator class, range iterator function, and an all of function. These involved various implementations with different perspectives and designs. Additionally, we covered list comprehensions and how they can be converted to iterators and using them to create generators related to the original lists. Additional, we covered some basics of using comprehensions for lists and sets as well. Lastly, we covered lambdas and how they create closures. We discovered how lambda's interact with different variables of varying scopes. Furthermore, Dr. Downing clarified several other concepts including how variables are passed as in Python functions. Arrays, for example, are passed by reference, allowing individual elements to be changed in functions.

### Tip of the Week

When it comes to becoming better programmers, practicing on a continuous and regular basis helps you keep up with the new versions of technologies and allow you to continue to keep your skills up in programming. Even if doing a small project or a large project, always try to be working on something whether that be HackerRank or Online Judging programming problems or building large scale web applications. Continuous practice will help give you the edge over other individuals when it comes to finding internships/jobs. It makes interviews and implementing algorithms significantly easier even when you need to code in a different language. Even then, you will still be able to think quickly through and process problems. After that, it's just a matter of converting the implementation to real code.