---
layout: post
title: Week 5 - Completing Netflix, More Python
---

Overall, this week covered several new Python concepts that are useful when programming in Python. One of the first limitations of Python includes a recursion depth limit which can be set. This means that Python may not be able to solve high recursion depth problems with large graphs of trees. Additionally, we covered standard mathematical operators in Python including differences in floating and floor division. Furthermore, Dr. Downing covered list, tuple, and string concatenation. Lastly, the class covered in depth the differences between iterators and iterables using a variety of different list implementations by checking if objects have the __next__ or __iter__ attributes. The lectures this week were heavy on the details of the functionaltiy of Python at a slightly lower level.

### Netflix Project

My Partner and I completed the Netflix project and had quite a bit of difficulty working with the caches seeing as the caches were of various formats with different ways to access the data. Additionally, Travis CI led to even more problems since the caches and files do not exist locally on the Travis CI machines. This meant that we had to do two implementations of grabbing the caches, one for Travis CI and one for the lab machines. 

### Tip of the Week

Relying on dependencies that are not necessarily reliable is risky. For the Netflix project we relied on a cache produced by someone else. It may have been safer to create a copy of the cache itself and upload a copy to the github public test repo ourselves to ensure that if the cache was modified, our code would continue to work. Especially in industry, relying on third party dependencies which aren't guaranteed to be reliable can bring down services and code at unexpected moments. I would highly suggest checking the reliability of using a third party library/service before using it.