---
layout: post
title: Week 11 - More SQL & IDB2
---

This week involved learning more in depth topics of SQL as well as finishing up IDB2.

### Lectures

Throughout the lectures, we covered several examples of join, subqueries, sets, and aggregation. With many of these examples, we were able to create select calls that can get the necessary data from the sql database. Over the course of the three lectures, we learned how to apply cross join, union, and various other functionalities in sql to extract specific database data. It is very clear from these examples the power of sql database manipulation that certain other non-sql forms of storing data may lack. The ability to choose which rows of data are relevant and finding similarities to access the sql database was extremely eye-opening.

### IDB2

We completed IDB2 last week. We implemented a wide variety of Anime data into our SQL database and implemented the individual pages with Flask to extract the information directly from the Database using SQL calls. Moreover, we displayed all the information with React.js. Furthermore, we implemented Unit Tests on the about page as well as created the new comprehensive tables which can easily be sorted to view the three categories we have on our project website.


### Tip of the Week

While SQL databases are very useful, sometimes the implementation of such databases can take large amounts of time to create and develop. Alternatively, in the case that your applications that you may be building do not require the complex functionality and facets of SQL databases, it can be very useful to use non-sql databases or methods of storing data such as MongoDB, Firebase, or Parse. Many of these tools have been built to allow the manipulation and storing of data in a much easier and faster manner. This sort of implementations can be extremely helpful as they cut down the development time dramatically. Especially if you wan't to build an application extremely quickly, methods such as using Firebase, allows you to control all your data with a very simple and small set of APIS. Although the choice in choosing these non-sql databases is definitely up to debate, Firebase is a fairly newer one which I have found to be very useful. Firebase, which was bought out by Google recently, stores all data in the form of a JSON. Manipulation of your Firebase "database" simply consists of REST API-like calls. You can create array-like structures and use standard Java Maps to hold data and transfer them to the Firebase database. Since all data is a JSON, changing data is extremely easy to do at a very quick pace. Additionally, Firebase does not require any sort of server. Calls can occur directly within the HTML/CSS/Javascript code. As you can see, certain simplistic applications can easily be built using Firebase in a small amount of time without having to ever touch any server code at all. In fact, you could build a Firebase application purely from Front-End technologies such as Angular and React.js that we have been using for IDB2.