---
layout: post
title: Week 10 - IDB2, Regular Expressions, Mutual Mobile, and SQL
---

This week involved a guest speaker from Mutual Mobile, work on Project 4: IDB2, lectures on regular expressions, and additional lectures on implementing SQL

### Lectures

In lecture we covered regular expressions and their Python implementations. This should be very useful especially when implementing the third part of our IDB project, which will involve implementing a search engine. Furthermore, we had a guest speaker from Mutual Mobile speak about the importance of open source projects, especially in the real world industry today. On Friday, Dr. Downing covered important aspects of SQL and important ways of build, querying, and interacting with SQL database tables.

### IDB2

Throughout the week, we have been working on the second part of the project. I have been focusing on cleaning up a lot of the front-end code in order to make the code design more intuitive as well as improve the front-end design. Now, I am working on porting a large portion of the front-end HTML/CSS/Javascript to use React.js to make the front-end more modular and more readable/modifiable.

### Tip of the Week

When building doing programming projects of any difficulty, it is important to always take a step back and look at the big picture situation before diving into the code. There have been several times where I have simply disregarded important details such as instructions, requirements, and important details. Especially when it comes to interviews, programming problems, or projects, building programs without significant foresight can actually delay the process even further especially when roadblocks appear. Additionally, not thinking thhrough corner cases and potential issues can mean the design of your programs in and of themselves are not robust. Programs tend to be more hacky and more poorly designed when developers immediately dive into the code. I have had too many experiences where I attempted to implement the very first solution that I thought of. Doing this during interviews has been one of my biggest regrets. Sometimes taking it a bit slower and thinking through problems more in depth rather than rushing the development process can prevent a world of headaches later on. Think, process, and consider the challenges and how they can be overcome before you suddenly start coding!