---
layout: post
title: Week 12 - Design Patterns, Atlassian, & IDB2
---

This week involved learning in depth topics concerning Refactoring and Design Patterns, beginning work on IDB3, a guest speaker from Atlassian, and Method Overriding.

### Lectures

Throughout the lectures, we learned about valuable design patterns and approaches to refactoring that can improve the quality of code that we write. We went through several examples of different implementations of movie rentals and customers to understand how different approaches to developing the code could being different benefits to the code base itself. Additionally, during the second lecture of the week, we had a guest speaker from Atlassian discuss Agile development, some basic Atlassian products, and the benefits of using such an approach to programming. From previous experience with Agile development, I understood most of the topics discussed in addition to having used JIRA and Confluence before at my previous internship. The last lecture covered a slightly more complex topic of method overriding and the interaction between static and dynamic binding. Although the lecture was slightly hard to grasp due to some slight confusions, it showcased an important concept to know especially when writing code with several interaction classes.

### IDB3

We began working on IDB3 where we will be implementing search, critiquing other IDB websites, and building a presentation for class. Overall, the work seems to be fairly complex with the involvement of utilizing other group's APIs and implementing a complex method for searching information from our SQL database. Overall, we began a great deal of planning in order to being the process of developing the important parts of the third part of the project.

### Tip of the Week

Before making a decision on using a language, framework, or development tool, I would highly suggest playing with it twice. From my experience in programming, most of the time I do not truly have a strong grasp of the functionality of a language or appropriate use of a language until I have completed two separate and decently complex projects with it. For the most part, with most languages, the first experience only provides a surface level view, but additional experiences and testing of languages provide deeper insights to the language, framework, or tool itself. In other words, I find it best to not judge a software development approach until after I have had significant exposure to it and have a stronger understanding of the reasons behind that approach.